Prerequisite 

•	An active Azure subscription. If you don't have one, create a free account. 

Create a single database 

This quickstart creates a single database in the serverless compute tier. 

Steps 1:To create a single database in the Azure portal this quickstart starts at the Azure SQL page. 

1.	Browse to the Select SQL Deployment option page. 

2.	Under SQL databases, leave Resource type set to Single database, and select Create. 
On the Basics tab of the Create SQL Database form, under Project details, select the desired Azure Subscription. 

For Resource group, select Create new, enter myResourceGroup, and select OK. 

For Database name enter mySampleDatabase. 

For Server, select Create new, and fill out the New server form with the following values: 

Server name: Enter mysqlserver, and add some characters for uniqueness. We can't provide an exact server name to use because server names must be globally unique for all servers in Azure, not just unique within a subscription. So enter something like mysqlserver12345, and the portal lets you know if it is available or not. 

Server admin login: Enter azureuser. 

Password: Enter a password that meets requirements, and enter it again in the Confirm password field. 

Location: Select a location from the dropdown list. 

Select OK. 
7.	Leave Want to use SQL elastic pool set to No. 

8.	Under Compute + storage, select Configure database. 

9.	This quickstart uses a serverless database, so select Serverless, and then select Apply. 

10.	Select Next: Networking at the bottom of the page. 
New SQL database - Basic tab 

11.	On the Networking tab, for Connectivity method, select Public endpoint. 

12.	For Firewall rules, set Add current client IP address to Yes. Leave Allow Azure services and resources to access this server set to No. 

13.	Select Next: Additional settings at the bottom of the page. 
14.	 On the Additional settings tab, in the Data source section, for Use existing data, select Sample. This creates an AdventureWorksLT sample database so there's some tables and data to query and experiment with, as opposed to an empty blank database. 

15.	 Optionally, enable Azure Defender for SQL. 

16.	 Optionally, set the maintenance window so planned maintenance is performed at the best time for your database. 

17.	 Select Review + create at the bottom of the page: 
18.	On the Review + create page, after reviewing, select Create. 

Query the database 

Once your database is created, you can use the Query editor (preview) in the Azure portal to connect to the database and query data. 

1.	In the portal, search for and select SQL databases, and then select your database from the list. 

2.	On the page for your database, select Query editor (preview) in the left menu. 

3.	Enter your server admin login information, and select OK. 
4.	Enter the following query in the Query editor pane. 

SQLCopy 

SELECT TOP 20 pc.Name as CategoryName, p.name as ProductName 

FROM SalesLT.ProductCategory pc 

JOIN SalesLT.Product p 

ON pc.productcategoryid = p.productcategoryid; 

5.	Select Run, and then review the query results in the Results pane. 
6.	Close the Query editor page, and select OK when prompted to discard your unsaved edits. 

Step 2: Set up SQL Data Sync between databases in Azure SQL Database and SQL Server 

Create sync group 

1.	Go to the Azure portal to find your database in SQL Database. Search for and select SQL databases. 
Select the database you want to use as the hub database for Data Sync. 
Note: The hub database is a sync topology's central endpoint, in which a sync group has multiple database endpoints. All other member databases with endpoints in the sync group, sync with the hub database. 

On the SQL database menu for the selected database, select Sync to other databases. 
On the Create Data Sync Group page, change the following settings: 

On the Sync to other databases page, select New Sync Group. The New sync group page opens with Create sync group (step 1). 

 

TABLE 25 

Setting 

Description 

Sync Group Name 

Enter a name for the new sync group. This name is distinct from the name of the database itself. 

Sync Metadata Database 

Choose to create a database (recommended) or to use an existing database. 
 
If you choose New database, select Create new database. Then on the SQL Database page, name and configure the new database and select OK. 
 
If you choose Use existing database, select the database from the list. 

Automatic Sync 

Select On or Off. 
 
If you choose On, enter a number and select Seconds, Minutes, Hours, or Days in the Sync Frequency section. 
The first sync begins after the selected interval period elapses from the time the configuration is saved. 

Conflict Resolution 

Select Hub win or Member win. 
 
Hub win means when conflicts occur, data in the hub database overwrites conflicting data in the member database. 
 
Member win means when conflicts occur, data in the member database overwrites conflicting data in the hub database. 

Use private link 

Choose a service managed private endpoint to establish a secure connection between the sync service and the hub database. 

  

Note: Microsoft recommends to create a new, empty database for use as the Sync Metadata Database. Data Sync creates tables in this database and runs a frequent workload. This database is shared as the Sync Metadata Database for all sync groups in a selected region and subscription. You can't change the database or its name without removing all sync groups and sync agents in the region. Additionally, an Elastic jobs database cannot be used as the SQL Data Sync Metadata database and vice versa. 

Select OK and wait for the sync group to be created and deployed. 

On the New Sync Group page, if you selected Use private link, you will need to approve the private endpoint connection. The link in the info message will take you to the private endpoint connections experience where you can approve the connection. 

Approve private link 

Add sync members 

After the new sync group is created and deployed, Add sync members (step 2) is highlighted on the New sync group page. 

In the Hub Database section, enter existing credentials for the server on which the hub database is located. Don't enter new credentials in this section. 

Enter existing credentials for the hub database server 

Add a database to the sync group 

Step 3: To add a database in Azure SQL Database 

In the Member Database section, optionally add a database in Azure SQL Database to the sync group by selecting Add an Azure SQL Database. The Configure Azure SQL Database page opens. 

On the Configure Azure SQL Database page, change the following settings: 

TABLE 26:TO ADD A DATABASE IN AZURE SQL DATABASE 

Setting       

Description 

Sync Member Name 

Provide a name for the new sync member. This name is distinct from the database name itself. 

Subscription 

Select the associated Azure subscription for billing purposes. 

Azure SQL Server 

Select the existing server. 

Azure SQL Database 

Select the existing database in SQL Database. 

Sync Directions 

Select Bi-directional Sync, To the Hub, or From the Hub. 

Username and Password 

Enter the existing credentials for the server on which the member database is located. Don't enter new credentials in this section. 

Use private link 

Choose a service managed private endpoint to establish a secure connection between the sync service and the member database. 

Select OK and wait for the new sync member to be created and deployed. 

To add a SQL Server database 

In the Member Database section, optionally add a SQL Server database to the sync group by selecting Add an On-Premises Database. The Configure On-Premises page opens where you can do the following things: 

Select Choose the Sync Agent Gateway. The Select Sync Agent page opens. 

 

Creating a sync agent 

On the Choose the Sync Agent page, choose whether to use an existing agent or create an agent. 

If you choose Existing agents, select the existing agent from the list. 

If you choose Create a new agent, do the following things: 

Download the data sync agent from the link provided and install it on the computer where the SQL Server is located. You can also download the agent directly from Azure SQL Data Sync Agent. 

 Important 

You have to open outbound TCP port 1433 in the firewall to let the client agent communicate with the server. 

Enter a name for the agent. 

Select Create and Generate Key and copy the agent key to the clipboard. 

Select OK to close the Select Sync Agent page. 

On the SQL Server computer, locate and run the Client Sync Agent app. 

 

The data sync client agent app 

In the sync agent app, select Submit Agent Key. The Sync Metadata Database Configuration dialog box opens. 

In the Sync Metadata Database Configuration dialog box, paste in the agent key copied from the Azure portal. Also provide the existing credentials for the server on which the metadata database is located. (If you created a metadata database, this database is on the same server as the hub database.) Select OK and wait for the configuration to finish. 

Enter the agent key and server credentials 

 Note- If you get a firewall error, create a firewall rule on Azure to allow incoming traffic from the SQL Server computer. You can create the rule manually in the portal or in SQL Server Management Studio (SSMS). In SSMS, connect to the hub database on Azure by entering its name as  

<hub_database_name>.database.windows.net. 

Add and configure a SQL Server database 

3.	Select Register to register a SQL Server database with the agent. The SQL Server Configuration dialog box opens. 

4.	In the SQL Server Configuration dialog box, choose to connect using SQL Server authentication or Windows authentication. If you choose SQL Server authentication, enter the existing credentials. Provide the SQL Server name and the name of the database that you want to sync and select Test connection to test your settings. Then select Save and the registered database appears in the list. 

SQL Server database is now registered 

Close the Client Sync Agent app. 

In the portal, on the Configure On-Premises page, select Select the Database. 

On the Select Database page, in the Sync Member Name field, provide a name for the new sync member. This name is distinct from the name of the database itself. Select the database from the list. In the Sync Directions field, select Bi-directional Sync, To the Hub, or From the Hub. 

Select OK to close the Select Database page. Then select OK to close the Configure On-Premises page and wait for the new sync member to be created and deployed. Finally, select OK to close the Select sync members page. 

Select the on premises database 

Note: To connect to SQL Data Sync and the local agent, add your user name to the role DataSync_Executor. Data Sync creates this role on the SQL Server instance. 

 

Configure sync group 

After the new sync group members are created and deployed, Configure sync group (step 3) is highlighted in the New sync group page. 
