Step 1: 

Sign in to the Azure portal at https://portal.azure.com 

Step 2: Create a Virtual Machine 

Under Services, select Virtual machines. 

In the Virtual machines page, select Add. The Create a virtual machine page opens. 

In the Basics tab, under Project details, make sure the correct subscription is selected and then choose to Create new resource group. Type myResourceGroup for the name.*. 

Screenshot of the Project details section showing where you select the Azure subscription and the resource group for the virtual machine 

Screenshot of the Instance details section where you provide a name for the virtual machine and select its region, image and size 

Under Instance details, type myVM for the Virtual machine name, choose East US for your Region, and choose Ubuntu 18.04 LTS for your Image. Leave the other defaults. 

Under Administrator account, select SSH public key. 

In Username type azureuser. 

For SSH public key source, leave the default of Generate new key pair, and then type myKey for the Key pair name. 

Screenshot of the Administrator account section where you select an authentication type and provide the administrator credentials 

Under Inbound port rules > Public inbound ports, choose Allow selected ports and then select SSH (22) and HTTP (80) from the drop-down. 

Screenshot of the inbound port rules section where you select what ports inbound connections are allowed on 

Leave the remaining defaults and then select the Review + create button at the bottom of the page. 

On the Create a virtual machine page, you can see the details about the VM you are about to create. When you are ready, select Create. 

When the Generate new key pair window opens, select Download private key and create resource. Your key file will be download as myKey.pem. Make sure you know where the .pem file was downloaded, you will need the path to it in the next step. 

When the deployment is finished, select Go to resource. 

On the page for your new VM, select the public IP address and copy it to your clipboard. 

Screenshot showing how to copy the IP address for the virtual machine 

Step 3: Connect to virtual machine 

Create an SSH connection with the VM. 

If you are on a Mac or Linux machine, open a Bash prompt. If you are on a Windows machine, open a PowerShell prompt. 

At your prompt, open an SSH connection to your virtual machine. Replace the IP address with the one from your VM, and replace the path to the .pem with the path to where the key file was downloaded. 

Console 

ssh -i .\Downloads\myKey1.pem azureuser@10.111.12.123 

 

Tip 

The SSH key you created can be used the next time you create a VM in Azure. Just select the Use a key stored in Azure for SSH public key source the next time you create a VM. You already have the private key on your computer, so you won't need to download anything. 

Install web server 

 

Bash 

sudo apt-get -y update 

sudo apt-get -y install nginx 

When done, type exit to leave the SSH session. 

View the web server in action 

Use a web browser of your choice to view the default NGINX welcome page. Type the public IP address of the VM as the web address. The public IP address can be found on the VM overview page or as part of the SSH connection string you used earlier. 
